PRODUCT NAME
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4 5G Black
​
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
Stands out. Stands up. Unfolds.
The Galaxy Z Fold4 does a lot in one hand with its 15.73 cm(6.2-inch) Cover Screen.
Unfolded, the 19.21 cm(7.6-inch) Main Screen lets you really get into the zone.
Pushed-back bezels and the Under Display Camera means there's more screen
and no black dot getting between you and the breathtaking Infinity Flex Display.
Do more than more with Multi View. Whether toggling between texts or catching up
on emails, take full advantage of the expansive Main Screen with Multi View.
PC-like power thanks to Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor in your pocket,
transforms apps optimized with One UI to give you menus and more in a glance
New Taskbar for PC-like multitasking. Wipe out tasks in fewer taps. Add
apps to the Taskbar for quick navigation and bouncing between windows when
you're in the groove.4 And with App Pair, one tap launches up to three apps,
all sharing one super-productive screen
Our toughest Samsung Galaxy foldables ever. From the inside out,
Galaxy Z Fold4 is made with materials that are not only stunning,
but stand up to life's bumps and fumbles. The front and rear panels,
made with exclusive Corning Gorilla Glass Victus+, are ready to resist
sneaky scrapes and scratches. With our toughest aluminum frame made with
Armor Aluminum, this is one durable smartphone.
World’s first water resistant foldable smartphones. Be adventurous, rain
or shine. You don't have to sweat the forecast when you've got one of the
world's first water-resistant foldable smartphones.
​
PRODUCT SPECS
OS - Android 12.0
RAM - 12 GB
Product Dimensions - 15.5 x 13 x 0.6 cm; 263 Grams
Batteries - 2 Lithium Ion batteries required. (included)
Item model number - SM-F936BZKDINU_5
Wireless communication technologies - Cellular
Connectivity technologies - Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, USB, NFC
GPS - True
Special features - Fast Charging Support, Dual SIM, Wireless Charging, Built-In GPS, Water Resistant
Other display features - Wireless
Device interface - primary - Touchscreen
Resolution - 2176x1812
Other camera features - Rear, Front
Form factor - Foldable Screen
Colour - Phantom Black
Battery Power Rating - 4400
Whats in the box - SIM Tray Ejector, USB Cable
Manufacturer - Samsung India pvt Ltd
Country of Origin - China
Item Weight - 263 g